LAYAL AL ZAHRA SALON CRM
PROJECT HANDOFF AND RECOVERY NOTES
Generated: 2026-09-30

PURPOSE
This note supplements the complete workspace snapshot and BRD. It records setup
and recovery information that is useful when restoring the project in a new
Replit workspace. It intentionally contains no secret values, database
credentials, passwords, or live customer/staff records.

WHICH ARCHIVE TO USE
Use layal-al-zahra-crm-complete-workspace.zip for the full snapshot. It contains
the project source, workspace configuration, Git repository/history, dependencies,
cache material, uploaded reference files, and existing documentation.

The six files named layal-al-zahra-crm-complete-workspace.part-01 through
part-06 are binary chunks of that same ZIP, not separate project archives. Join
them in numeric order to recreate the ZIP. The separate parts guide has the
commands and checksums.

DATABASE
- Engine/ORM: PostgreSQL with Drizzle ORM.
- Schema source of truth: lib/db/src/schema/.
- Database connection: the application reads DATABASE_URL. In a Replit-managed
  setup, provision the database in the new workspace and let Replit provide this
  runtime variable. Do not copy a connection string into this note or commit it.
- Schema setup for a fresh DEVELOPMENT database:
    pnpm install
    pnpm --filter @workspace/db run push
- Check the target database before applying schema changes. The command above is
  intended for development setup; it does not copy the old database's records.

Declared schema tables (28):
Core and scheduling:
  staff, working_hours, clients, client_groups, service_categories, services,
  appointments
Sales and operations:
  sales, sale_items, products, expense_categories, expenses
Loyalty and stored value:
  packages, package_services, client_packages, client_package_usage,
  membership_plans, membership_plan_services, client_memberships,
  client_membership_usage, gift_card_types, gift_cards, wallet_transactions
Staff finance and attendance:
  tips, attendance_logs, staff_wage_settings, wage_payments, commission_slabs

Important schema distinctions:
- working_hours represents the weekly availability used for booking.
- attendance_logs represents actual daily clock-in/clock-out records.
- Drizzle numeric/decimal fields are represented as strings in TypeScript;
  convert numbers to strings when inserting and convert back when calculating
  or displaying numeric values.
- Valid staff-role values are admin, manager, receptionist, stylist, therapist.

The workspace snapshot contains schema/code, not the current database contents.
Customer, staff, appointment, sales, and other live rows must be transferred
separately through an authorized database export/import if they are needed.
Review any seed script before running it against a database that already has data.

SECRETS AND ENVIRONMENT
- SESSION_SECRET: required by the API session middleware. Create a fresh,
  strong value in the new workspace's Replit Secrets. Do not reuse or paste the
  old value into this file, chat, source control, or a handoff archive.
- DATABASE_URL: supplied by the provisioned Replit PostgreSQL database in a
  managed setup. It is not included here and should not be manually copied.
- PORT, NODE_ENV, and Replit runtime variables are provided/configured by the
  runtime as appropriate. LOG_LEVEL is optional and defaults in the API code.
- The API currently has a development fallback if SESSION_SECRET is unset.
  Do not rely on that fallback; configure a fresh secret before using the app.

For an external database, configure its connection through the new workspace's
secret/environment-variable flow. Never put a live connection string in this
text file.

Git history:
- The complete Git history available at snapshot time is preserved in the
  archive's .git directory. It is not reduced to this note or a short log.
- After extracting, inspect history with:
    git log --oneline --all --decorate
    git branch --all
    git tag --list
- Git LFS objects present in the snapshot are included with the repository.
- Before sharing the restored repository, review historical commits and assets
  for demo credentials or other sensitive content. Rotate/remove any such values.

RESTORING AND RUNNING
1. Extract the complete ZIP into a new workspace.
2. From the project root, run:
     pnpm install
3. Provision the new workspace's PostgreSQL database and add a fresh
   SESSION_SECRET in Replit Secrets.
4. Apply the Drizzle schema to the new development database:
     pnpm --filter @workspace/db run push
5. Start the frontend and API using the configured Replit workflows, or run:
     pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run dev
     pnpm --filter @workspace/salon-crm run dev

The installed node_modules and caches are included for completeness, but
reinstalling from pnpm-lock.yaml is recommended when restoring on a different
workspace or machine.

VERIFICATION AND KNOWN LIMITATION
The frontend typecheck passed during the earlier handoff work. The API
typecheck reported six numeric-type errors in services, inventory, and loyalty
code. Re-run checks after restore and address these before treating the project
as production-ready.

BRD
The BRD is included in deliverables as DOCX, Markdown, and TXT. It summarizes
implemented modules, recent Client Groups and Finance work, requirements,
limitations, acceptance criteria, and prioritized remaining work. It is a
handoff guide, not a replacement for the source, Git history, database backup,
or secret setup.

ARCHIVE SAFETY EXCLUSIONS
For safety, the snapshot excludes the cached Replit environment at
.cache/replit/env, .env files, private-key files, and files whose names indicate
credentials or secrets. Replit-managed secret values and live database records
are not part of the archive.